---
title: Meshery v0.8.0
subheading: Release Announcement
date: 2024-12-18
author_contributor: Meshery Maintainers
categories:
  - release
  - announcement
permalink: /blog/meshery-v080-release-announcement
featured-image: /assets/images/posts/2024-12-18-v0.8.0-release-announcement/meshery-v080-release-announcement.png
---

We are excited to announce the release of Meshery v0.8.0! This release includes a number of new features and improvements, including:
 in the time that measures 0.7 has released, there have been many new features and enhancements added to the project.

* **Lifecycle Management:** Support for AWS and GCP, Static Model Generation sources AWS, GCP as K8s CRDs, Relationships for AWS, and more.  
* **Registry & Models:** Refactor Model and Relationship as first-class resources, Model import/export, Server Model Generator for direct Helm Chart or K8s Manifest Retrieval, Dynamic Generation via URL (Chart, Manifest) upon Design import, and SelectorSets for Relationships.  
* **Open Container Image (OCI) Support:** Adopt OCI as the packaging and distribution format for Meshery Designs, Patterns, Filters, and Models.  
* **Spaces:**
  * [Environments](https://docs.meshery.io/concepts/logical/environments) - Environments are how you organize your deployment targets (whether on-premises servers or cloud services) into resource groups.
  * [Workspaces](https://docs.meshery.io/concepts/logical/workspaces) - Meshery Workspaces act as central collaboration point for teams.
* **Extensibility & Extensions:** Extensible Authorization and Expand Meshery's Integration with Artifact Hub.  
* **Docs:** Playground Learning Paths: Cloud Native tutorials with Meshery Playground and more.  
* **UI:** Complete incorporation of RTK, Switch to Sistent as the theme provider, Sistent Design System, and Support for Material UI v5.  
* **CLI:** code coverage goal: 50% and Full migration from Apps to Designs.  

### [Registry](https://docs.meshery.io/concepts/logical/registry) - Meshery Registry is a database acting as the central repository for all capabilities known to Meshery. These capabilities encompass various entities, including models, components, relationships, and policies.

This release also includes a number of bug fixes and performance improvements.

* **Build, Test, Release:** Server End-to-End Testing coverage goal: 25% and Transition from Cypress to Playwright.  

Not included in this release are the following features, which are planned for future releases:

* **Adapters & Performance Management:** Evolve meshes.proto to adapters.proto and Externalize Nighthawk.  
  
**Thank You!**

A big thank you to all of the contributors who made this release possible! We are grateful for your continued support of the Meshery project.

## On to v0.9

To learn more about the new features and a comprehensive list of bug fixes, see the [Meshery Documentation](https://docs.meshery.io/docs/project/releases).

Checkout [Meshery’s roadmap](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/blob/master/ROADMAP.md) to peek into what’s yet to come.

_If these topics excite you, come and say "Hi" in the community [Slack](https://slack.meshery.io/) and you are sure to be warmly welcomed. 😀_

We are already hard at work on [v0.9.0 Roadmap](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/meshery-v0-9-roadmap/6296)! See [v0.9.0 Milestone](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/milestone/5) in `meshery/meshery` for more details and the [Meshery Architecture deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1SQMfyu5shjpGKlYONdVzOtd7UYTgLWBcgUvHMLCZ2tY/edit#) for additional visual designs and functional specifications.
Stay tuned for more updates.

**Get Involved!**

We welcome your contributions to Meshery! Please see our contributing guidelines for more information.  
v0.8 includes a focus on the Meshery Registry which is significant in that the Meshery Registry is a database acting as the central repository for all capabilities known to Meshery. These capabilities encompass various entities, including models, components, relationships, and policies. Capabilies are registered in different ways depending upon your Meshery deployment.

<details>
<summary>Roadmap Details</summary>

<h3>Adapters & Performance Management</h3>

<ol>
<li><a href="https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/9968">Evolve meshes.proto to adapters.proto</a></li>
<li> Externalize Nighthawk (<a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Qy_BpHXibTvL9daLTc5L4fjmr1F051ya0UYeghNUq_I/edit?usp=sharing">spec</a>)</li>
    <li>Nighthawk as a Meshery Adapter (`meshery-nighthawk`)</li>
    <li>Server: Lifecycle Management of `meshery-nighthawk` in Meshery Server</li>
    <li>CLI: `mesheryctl perf` support for load generator / adapter selection</li>
    <li>UI: `meshery-nighthawk` adapter chip</li>
</ol>

<h3>Basic Adaptive Load Controller</h3>

**Basic Adaptive Load Controller** ([spec](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1arewKYZuhkv7NGRZKx0w-7bQdS-ho-YSYJF0X32qfHo/edit#slide=id.gfbc0c4fb3f_0_8)) (_v0.9.0_)
<ul>
<li>Exposure of “Adaptive Test” in Meshery UI.</li>
<li>Meshery Server endpoints.</li>
<li>Storage of n result sets in Provider for a given Performance Profile.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Custom Telemetry Provider</h3>

<ul>
<li>Multiple Telemetry Providers and Custom Boards (<a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1SQMfyu5shjpGKlYONdVzOtd7UYTgLWBcgUvHMLCZ2tY/edit#slide=id.g1044af767ce_5_2">spec</a>)</li>
<li>User-defined Dashboards and Metrics (<a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1SQMfyu5shjpGKlYONdVzOtd7UYTgLWBcgUvHMLCZ2tY/edit#slide=id.gcb74201a11_0_119">spec</a>)</li>
</ul>
  
</details>

## Lifecycle and Configuration Management

* **Support AWS and GCP**
  * Models for  AWS, GCP as K8s CRDs.
  * Relationships: AWS
  * :warning: Relationships: GCP
  * :x: Connections, Credentials for AWS, GCP
  * :x: CLI: Refactor `system config` for AKS ([spec](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XfIvMwKGKBS5_ielGWuYFdqJByEcOeloCKpUL9bBxlw/edit#heading=h.blih70a9hxp))
  * :x: CLI: Refactor `system config` for EKS ([spec](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XfIvMwKGKBS5_ielGWuYFdqJByEcOeloCKpUL9bBxlw/edit#heading=h.blih70a9hxp))

* :warning: GitOps: Expand Flux Integration with Helm Repo [?]

* :x:MeshSync: Configurable and Tiered Discovery [:meshery:@Daniel.Kiptoon]
  * :warning: Support for runtime registration of new fingerprints. [@MUzairS15]
  * :x: Support for composite fingerprints where keys span multiple entities (or not just the entity being discovered). [?]
[details="Roadmap v0.9.0 (stretch goal)"]

- CLI:  Meshconfig: Support for multi-cluster ([spec](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r_Yopt904qdqO6lutzZn8mfqjKlI-MQgD22GG8x4UYM/edit#)) [?]
[/details]

## Registry & Models [:meshery:@MUzairS15]

**Models**

* :white_check_mark: Refactor Model as first-class resource. [@Shlok_Mishra]
  * :white_check_mark: Model import/export  [@Shlok_Mishra]
* :white_check_mark: Server: [Model Generator](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rUwDANT6-fk-d_8TUh73wFBeTRTOCE-tuDEQeHRchZA/edit#heading=h.1rjqe5qvw5j9) for direct Helm Chart or K8s Manifest Retrieval
  * :white_check_mark: Dynamic Generation via URL (Chart, Manifest) upon Design import. [@Shlok_Mishra ]
* :x: Support for Sub-Categories [?]

**Relationships**
* :white_check_mark: Refactor Relationship as first-class resource. [@Lee]
  * :white_check_mark: Relationship Coverage for All K8s Components ([spec](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1DZHnzxYWOlJ69Oguz4LkRVTFM79kC2tuvdwizOJmeMw/edit#gid=0)) [@Lee][@Ripul.Handoo][@SAHU-01]
  * Evaluation: Enhancing the mechanism used to reference policies on disk or in registry. [?]
  * :white_check_mark: Classification of Policy Evaluation into client-side, server-side, and cluster-side moments of evaluation and their distinctions. [@Lee]
  * :white_check_mark: SelectorSets for Relationships [@MUzairS15]

**Registry** [:meshery:@Yash.Sharma]
The master registry is exposed as in both of my clients in the CLI and the UI. As a systemwide setting, you can elect to ignore any models that have been registered.

Registration of connections and credentials

Meshery models support for commands:

Meshery CLI now has dedicated support for models, relationships, components, connections, credentials, and policies as first-class commands.

### Open Container Image (OCI) Support

Adopt OCI as the packaging and distribution format for Meshery Designs, Patterns, Filters, Models ([#6447](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/6447)) ([Design Spec](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AmNnwtMbYSVQ00TZRYtEZBJQTrPtH_S51ZG2UiwBGqs/edit))
CLI: Pushing and pulling Models and Designs from OCI registries [?] ([Design Spec](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AmNnwtMbYSVQ00TZRYtEZBJQTrPtH_S51ZG2UiwBGqs/edit))

* Connection: Supporting OCI Registries ([#8855](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/8855)) ([Design Spec](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AmNnwtMbYSVQ00TZRYtEZBJQTrPtH_S51ZG2UiwBGqs/edit))
* Signing OCI exported images
* Export a Design to GitHub
* Export a Model to Docker Hub

## Extensibility & Extensions

[Helm Kanvas Snapshot](/extensions/helm-kanvas-snapshot) - Helm Kanvas Snapshot is a Helm chart that allows you to take snapshots of your Kubernetes resources and sync them with Meshery Server. This extension makes it easier to manage and track changes to resources over time.

Looking ahead, additional extensions are planned for v0.9, including [kubectl MeshSync Snapshot](/extensions/kubectl-meshsync-snapshot) and [kubectl Kanvas Snapshot](/extensions/kubectl-kanvas-snapshot). These extensions will allow users to take snapshots of their Kubernetes resources and sync them with Meshery Server. This will make it easier to manage and track changes to resources over time.



## Docs [:meshery: ?]

* :white_check_mark: [Playground] Learning Paths: Cloud Native tutorials with Meshery Playground [#9832](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/9832)
[@vishalvivekm]
  * Creating three tutorials per category, allowing learners to perform hands-on lab interactively in the live cluster environment in Meshery Playground. [@sandramsc]
* :white_check_mark: Automated publication of End-to-End test results [@Jerens_Lensun]
* :x: Dynamic Menu: Sidebar Table of Contents [?]

## UI [:meshery: @Antonette.Caldwell @SAHU-01]

* UI: Switch to Sistent as the theme provider [@Sudhanshu_Dasgupta]
  * UI: All components sourced from Sistent .
* New Components in Sistent Design System
  *
* :warning: UI: Support for Material UI v5 [@SAHU-01]

## CLI [:meshery: @alphaX86 @hexxdump]

- :warning: CLI: code coverage goal: 50% [?]
* :white_check_mark:  CLI: Full migration from Apps to Designs  [@theBeginner86]
[details="Roadmap v0.9.0 (stretch goal)"]
* CLI: `system report` - diagnostics reporting _(stretch goal)_ [?]
[/details]

## Build, Test, Release

Server: End-to-End Testing coverage goal: 50% [:meshery: @Jerens_Lensun Ian Whitney]
Transition from Cypress to Playwright ([recorded training session]())

### Playground [:meshery: @Sangram.Rath]

- Remote Provider: Deployment using Meshery (as a Meshery Design)
- Remote Provider: Multi-master Postgres

## Meshery Catalog

* Models in Catalog
* Addition of user-defined, custom tags as filters
* Robust category/type filters
